[MUSIC]
>> Kent C Dodds: Okay, now we're gonna
get to something really exciting.
When I discovered this I was
holy shnikies, this is so easy.
Okay, so that's the extract.css,
we can check that out,
which apparently is maybe broken somehow.
I'm sorry, I'll look at it.
So offline Progressive Web Apps fun stuff,
this is great.
So in modern web browsers now you have
this cool thing called Service Worker and
that allows you to have
things that are offline.
I actually,
well I'm not going to show you that, but
actually JavaScriptAir.com this
is my podcast and it's awesome.
This week we're gonna be talking
about how to be a mentor.
Check this out, the past present and
future of JavaScript with Brendan Eich.
[SOUND] Yeah, that was an awesome show.
So JavaScript Air is actually built
with React and it is a static web site.
So it's actually generated at
build time which is pretty cool.
So one other cool thing about it,
is it actually works totally offline.
So if I turn off my Wi-Fi,
hopefully I can turn it back on safely.
But I'll open an entirely new tab and
it totally works.
If I go to Google.com, no no, no, no.
But JavaScript Air I can refresh.
Totally works offline and it's using
a technology called Service Worker.
Well, I'd show you it on my phone, but
I think you get the idea, it's awesome.
Service Worker requires HTTPS.
So if you're not using HTTPS, shame
on you, and you should be doing that.
No, sorry not shame on you,
but please do that.
But yeah, what we're gonna do is
add Service Worker to our app.
And there are just a couple of
things we need to do to do that.
There is a plugin that does this for us.
So this last little bit is
just the rise of the plugins
that just do magical things for us.
And so somewhere in here we're
going to say offline-plugin.
If that's not a generic name
that doesn't describe that
it's a webpack plugin I
don't know what it is, but
it's 3.4.2 so I actually realized
just today that I had this.
I'm not sure what's doing this for me,
but it's auto completing the versions.
What, that's that's so cool!
So yeah, but that's the latest version and
that's the one that you should
have when you installed stuff.
So there are a couple things we need to
do to make this work, just a handful.
The first is,
we'll go to our webpack config and yet
again we're gonna pull in the
OfflinePlugin from require offline-plugin.
And then we'll go down to our
plugins array and at some point,
I'm pretty sure it doesn't matter where,
we can say new OfflinePlugin.
And then all that we need to do and
actually, I think I heard that it
was possible to do a little bit of
configuration in here to have
it auto install in your app.
But we're gonna do it manually just so
you see it a little bit more
of what's going on here.
So here we'll go into our bootstrap.
And in the bootstrap is where we want to
actually turn on the offline capability.
So we're going to import install, oops.
>> Kent C Dodds: as offline, oops.
>> Kent C Dodds: Because install
isn't a very descriptive name,
from offline-plugin/runtime.
And then we're gonna take
that offline install and
in our bootstrap we're just gonna call it.
>> Kent C Dodds: And
if we run the dev server.
>> Kent C Dodds: [SOUND] We refresh and
we start getting,
actually I didn't refresh,
it refreshed for me.
We start getting this SW Install event and
Cached assets and yada yada yada.
And now if you see here,
you see a couple of things that have
the little gear icon next to them.
That means that they're being
served from the service record.
So if I refresh, well, things
are a little bit funny in development.
But we'll take a look at
production here in a little bit.
But if you go to Application and
look at Service Worker,
you'll see that it's installed.
And you can, let's see,
there's a place to inspect
the Service Worker somewhere.
Hold up.
Yeah, so you can look at what
the Service Worker looks like.
The Service Worker is just responsible for
caching all of your assets and
so the Service Worker plugin
generates this Service Worker.
Whoa, that's a spider.
>> Multiple: [LAUGH]
>> Kent C Dodds: Aah!
Sorry I should have screamed.
And based off of all
the things that we need for
our application like all of our assets for
our application.
And it will, when the browser
goes to make a request for it,
it will say is this thing in
the Service Worker cache?
If it is then just serve
it from the cache.
If it's not then go to the server and
get it and then cache it.
And so then you don't need to
worry about loading it when it,
yeah, when you've already cached it.
So the cool thing about this
is we already talked about
long term caching with having
that chunk cache and everything.
That's all cool and stuff, but
the browser is just gonna throw up
its hands if it's offline unless
there's a Service Worker installed.
So I'm gonna do one other thing.
Where did it go?
Here.
We actually don't want to install the
offline mode in development because that
makes development a little tricky.
And so I'm not going to show you or
belabor you with the code to do this but
this is what you do,
process.env.NODE_ENV === 'production'.
So this is something that you
would normally do in Node because
Node has processing via NODE_ENV.
But you normally wouldn't
do this in the browser.
But we have this cool defined plugin
thing that comes from webpack.
Where you can say hey, webpack,
any time you come across
something that is processed.env,
I want you to replace that with this
object that has a NODE_ENV property.
And that NODE_ENV property
will be this value.
And so
you provide that value as a string and
it will just take whatever you put in
that string and plop it in its place.
So what that will do is
it will basically say.
So originally your code
will look like this,
your source code will look like this,
it will say okay this is NODE_ENV.
So I'm in production mode and so I'm going
to say okay "production" === 'production'
then it will actually
evaluate that even further.
Well I think Uglify will
evaluate this to true.
And then it will actually get rid
of the statement altogether because
that's always true, right?
And so it will just say okay,
offlineInstall.
But alternatively this will be development
and that will evaluate to false, and
then Uglify will remove that code.
It's dead code because you
can never reach that code.
Yeah, so I'm actually just to not have
to type all that I'm gonna go here.
And we'll check that out.
And then I'm going to run build.
>> [SOUND]
>> Kent C Dodds: And
Service Worker like I said requires HTTPS
unless you're serving from local hosts.
Thank the browser overlords for
doing that because
developing with local hosts as
HTTPS is a real pain in the rear.
So now if we run npm start it will
start up our HTTP server on dist.
Where did my browser go?
We'll run that, or I refreshed
the browser, you couldn't tell.
But now we have that
Service Worker installed and
if we go to Application > Service Worker.
And I'm actually not,
well I guess you have this Offline button,
but I don't really trust it,
because I'm not actually offline, so yeah.
But it says that it's working somehow,
so, I don't know.
But what's gonna be cool
is in this next step
when y'all push your own version of
this app to a production thing and
then you turn off your Wi-Fi and
it's still running.
That's what's gonna be cool and
that's what we're doing next.
But before I go into that I
would like to open it up for
questions because I've been talking a lot.
>> Kent C Dodds: You're sitting here like,
well this is heaven or
this is scary or a little of both.
>> Off Camera 1: Part of it is, web
workers it's, where do these even work?
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah.
>> Off Camera 1: You know, Chrome and-
>> Kent C Dodds: Well Service Worker.
>> Off Camera 1: Service Worker.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, Service Worker,
that's a good question.
Service worker or browser support.
>> Kent C Dodds: I'm fairly
certain it's not just Chrome.
I think Edge supports Service Worker.
I'm pretty sure Firefox
supports Service Worker.
Yeah, so you got Firefox and
Chrome, Opera, Android browser,
Chrome for Android.
Looks like you're still hurting for
Safari forever.
Safari is the new IE and looks like
Edge doesn't have it quite yet either.
But yeah, this is a cool thing that users
using modern browsers can leverage.
>> Off Camer 2: And
it won't blow up on those other ones.
>> Kent C Dodds: Right, yeah, the offline
install actually what it's doing is it
says if service, now I can't
remember what it's called, the API,
but it'll check for the API in navigation.
Yeah?
>> Off Camera 1: He's asking if,
aren't there issues with when the chunk
cache changes, as far as I know updating
Service Worker and making the browser
use the new worker is not trivial.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah, so that's the
beauty of using these plugins that are so
powerful is the plugin actually
doesn't use the chunk cache thing so
the browser will have to go get
the Service Worker every time.
But that doesn't prevent it from
actually loading the app, so
if it is online,
it's gonna load the app fast and
then it will load the Service Worker and
the Service Worker will cache everything.
Yeah, the cool part of this Service Worker
cache thing that I wanted to.
Well no, I'll talk about that in
a little bit when we deploy our apps.
But yeah, you don't ever really need to
worry about the Service Worker not being
updated because the browser
will always check for
the Service Worker if it's online.
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah?
>> Off Camer 2: There is one more at
the end there-
>> Kent C Dodds: Yeah.
>> Off Camer 2: Is it
automagically going to update
files that changed on each deployment?
>> Kent C Dodds: Yes it will do that.
And, yeah, so
that answers Billy's question, as well.
It will automagically
update the hashes as well.
It will update all
the resources on every build.
That's part of what it
has in that sw.js file.
It has that mapping of all the assets.
And so then when the user loads that
Service Worker file it'll say okay,
here are a bunch of new things and
those new things will actually
be in the index HTML as well.
And the Service Worker,
well the script will tell
the Service Worker hey all of these
things aren't part of my assets anymore.
You can clear that cache and
here I have a new or that part of
the cache and I have a new asset for you.
>> Kent C Dodds: Any other questions?
Sweet, there's probably not very
many apps I wouldn't do this on.